Nikhil
Responsible enough.
Good attitude to learn new things.
Made a good contribution to RecruitmentPortal by implementing excel validation, client summary page, error handling etc.
Would be good and better if you go an extramile and take intiative by your own in bringing new things on the things that you work.
Would be better if you could improve the communication skill.
Overall - meets the expectation most of the time.

Ram
Good dedication and responsibilties.
Technically good, good attitude to learn new things.
Made a good contribution to RecruitmentPortal by implementing Approval flow right from front end till backend independently.
Would be good and better if you make yourself a very strong core java programmer like involving in more core java progrmming like concurrency,etc.
Overall - meets the expectation always

Pallavi:
Worked with her in very short span of time.
Have observed like good in learning new things, good in UI.
Would be better if she is more responsible and become more expertise in Angular, Microservice.
Overall - meets the expectation sometimes.

Soni
Have seen an improvement in terms of responsibilties in compare to last cycle.
Though she is new to front end, shown good interest in learning Angular by implementing the client page, and candidate summary page UI part in Angular.
Have to improve her technical skills in such a way that she can do the task independently.
Overall - rarely meets the expectation.

Sandeep
Good in taking ownership.
Have shown great attitude in learning new things and hunger to learn new technologies is so good.
Have made a significant contribution to RecruitmentPortal application - would really like to appreciate it.
Knowledge that he carries to his level of experience is good.
Overall - sometimes exceeds the expectations.

Pavithra
Good in taking ownsership.
Good in following up with the resource and get it done.
Good in reporting to management.
She has implemented Version one tool - a project management tool for the project which helps the management to track the daily activities of the resources.
She is bold in making decision, transparent with the team and clear in her thoughts and ideas
Always she makes sure that daily standup happens without fail.
Overall - a good team player, definitely would need a resource like her to drive the team.