OD 11547 55288 75811 000

38024PP29

IN1905171108460206207


Installation of second java instance - 7 days
	This includes 
	Creating another instance fully for all modules. - 7 days
Adjustment of java application according to newly created technical fields - 23 days
	This includes 
		Modify the mapping in the java with respect to DB fields - 6 days
		Change the query. - 10 days
		Also have to see the possibilty of modifying all the business rules from oracle to SAP HANA. - 7 days
Replacement of old libraries - 11 days
	This includes
		Have to identify all the unused libraries. - 4 days
		Remove the unused libraries and verify the impact. - 2 days
		Test the whole application(like whole modules) - 5 days
JCO connection replacement using API interface from SAP HANA BW - 10 days
	This includes
		Identifying the java libraries to connect with SAP Hana. - 2 days
		POC to connect. - 4 days
		Implementation and testing.	- 4 days
local DB migration according to new fields. - 20 days
	This includes
		Have to see all the affected tables because of new field inclusion. - 4 days
		Have to change all the queries pertaining to that. - 8 days
		Have to identify the migration script for old data. - 8 days
Authorization to migrated using Azure SSO. - 16 days
	This includes
	Idenntify all the available authorization - 5 days
	POC on Azure SSO. - 3 days
	Migrating to Azure SSO (connect to Azure SSO, implementation and test) - 6 days
	Testing - 2 days
	
Modify UI according to user requirements - 23 days
	This includes
	Identify the screen getting impacted. - 4 days
	POC - if there is a screen with new component. - 4 days
	Implementation(alignment) and testing.- 5 days
Maintenance of the whole application. - this includes complete testing of the whole application) - 10 days

Other Task - Prework.- 18 days
	Environment set up like VPN, Software installation like DB,server,code repository - 5 days
	Understand the application.- 4 days
	Queries - 2 days
	Prepare impact analysis document - 7 days
	
Regression Testing - 10 days	

All together it takes = 138 days


Things to Read:

Introduction read:
Atom bot - explanation, roles, responsibilities, explain about project, enhancement that we made using multithreading
Recruitment portal application - features - roles responsibilities,
AppViewX - ADC - explanation Roles and responsibilities.(scrum master), Impact Analysis team

Technical read :
Spring security
	Basic authentication.
	OAuth -
	SAML
	SiteReminder
	Azure SSO
Web services - restful - soap
Java 8 features example
Java 9 features example
Core java scenario based interview questions
Spring Boot, Spring CLoud components example
Performance optimization
	Migration script in mongodb.
	JVisualVM(to analyse at run time), JMeter(To simulate the request), MAT(Memory Analyser Tool to analyse heap dump memory)
Deployment knowledge like - PCF, Kubernetes, Docker
Mongo DB - features examples query
Angular 6 - features working examples
TDD
Junit and Mockito
Maven build - code metrics for java


Project Read:
Oracle DB - connectivity
SAP HANA - details
JCO connection details
Azure SSO


Upload all the read materials, Project like Spring Cloud to Git